Mae'r investidur yn...
Wel, beth yw hynny yn y lles?
Y lles.
O, byddai wedi bod yn ystod ymlaen.
Byddai wedi bod yn ystod ymlaen.
Ie.
Do you remember, was there anybody else with you?
I would imagine my father would have watched that.
I can't remember who was with me,
but I'm sure my father would have watched it,
because he was interested in history, you see.
Yes, I remember being impressed with the fashion.
The Queen's hat was like surrounded,
and I don't know if you've seen pictures of it yourself.
And the canopy was very modern,
and chairs, I think the people were allowed to keep the chairs afterwards,
very plain, but very stark really, very modern for the time.
And yet you're in this historic castle that was so old.
But it was very nice, the weather was nice I think as well.
I remember Princess Anne's dress as well,
it was just the style at that time, very clear cut.
And I think they had pastel colours, the royal family,
in their sort of light summer coats.
I remember also when the Queen brought Charles to the different areas
to present him to the people, I remember that bit clearly.
And of course from the paper beforehand,
I knew that they were going to be coming by train
and being in a siding somewhere, and overnight.
And I think there were some demonstrations against it as well.
Some Welsh, I don't know whether it was Cymdeithas yr Iaith,
or some of those didn't agree with it, and this kind of thing, I remember that.
I think there was some, I'm not sure, did a bomb go off,
or something in the run-up to this,
or there was some worry about it anyway, something like that.
What do you remember seeing in the month leading up to the ceremony on television?
Oh, there was a lot on television.
Well I think as details emerged of who would be invited,
and some of the councillors and people like that from every part of Wales.
And what Lord Snowdon was going to wear,
was he Constable of the Castle or something,
and he was in this, I think it was Green Velvet or something.
Because there was no precedent really for somebody like him,
because I think he had organised it because he was Welsh
and he was part of the Royal Family then, you see.
So I remember as details emerged, that's what I remember,
in the paper probably, and oh yes, I wish I'd got that investiture thing really.
I'll have a look afterwards, I'll just see if there is one place it might be.
But yes, I remember the paper and I kept all this,
and also the timetable and who was doing what,
that kind of thing would have come from the paper.
In terms of some of the objections that you mentioned,
where did you hear about those?
I think they would have been in the paper rather than television,
because they may not have been on the British television,
but they certainly would have been on the Welsh television,
but we didn't have that, you see.
So it must have been the newspaper I think.
As a Welsh woman, how did the ceremony make you feel?
Oh, I felt...
Well, I didn't disagree with it.
I didn't disagree at all.
Because after all, we are a United Kingdom, aren't we now?
And so, no, I didn't disagree with it at all really.
I just didn't want any accidents to happen or anything like that.
I didn't mind if somebody objected,
but I don't want any violence or anything like that, do you know?
Was there any sort of street parties and things going on in this area?
I don't think so.
Well, they weren't in my little hamlet when I lived then.
Erm, no.
No.
The only street party I ever remember was...
Let me see. What was that about?
I think it was the Golden... The Silver Jubilee.
The Silver Jubilee of the Queen.
That would have been...
Yes, it was soon after I came to live here.
And we had a street party just here.
For the children, mainly.
It was just the children.
And I know in school we'd made little crowns with gold paper
and cut them out, sort of.
They were quite intricate actually.
Quite small and just like that, like a saucer size.
And I made one myself and I put it on the table as a decoration.
Like a table decoration, you know.